# scientific-calculator-using-lex-and-yacc
A scientific calculator program that accepts simple arithmetic expressions, constants such as PI and scientific functions such as log, sin, cos, tan and square root. The calculator program reads input from the user, tokenize the input using Lex, parse the tokens using Yacc, and evaluate the expression to produce the result. Given the source code and share the screen that shows the compilation steps and the execution of the program.

To run the program:-
STEP 1) lex calc.l
STEP 2) yacc -d calc.y
STEP 3) cc lex.yy.c y.tab.c -ll -lm
STEP 4) ./a.out

Basic Code explanation:-
LEX
This is the Lex portion of the program that defines the lexical analyzer, which is responsible for recognizing tokens in the user's input. Here's a breakdown of the code:
•	The %option noyywrap directive tells Lex not to generate code for the yywrap function, which is used to wrap input files. Since this program is not reading from a file, we don't need the yywrap function.
•	The %{ ... %} block contains headers to include standard C libraries, as well as global variables and functions that will be used throughout the program. In this case, it includes the y.tab.h header file that was generated by Yacc.
•	The %% symbol separates the Lex rules from the rest of the program.
•	Each rule in the Lex program matches a particular pattern in the user's input and returns the corresponding token to Yacc. For example, the first rule matches a sequence of one or more digits followed by an optional decimal point and one or more digits, and returns the num token with the corresponding value. The other rules match individual operators and special functions and return the corresponding token.
•	The [\t]; rule matches tabs and ignores them.
•	The \n rule matches newlines and returns 0 to indicate the end of the input.
•	The . rule matches any character that wasn't matched by a previous rule and returns the first character of that character sequence as a token.
Overall, the Lex program defines the tokens that will be used by the Yacc parser, and matches them to corresponding patterns in the user's input. It also ignores whitespace and newlines.


YACC

This is a program written in Lex and Yacc that simulates a scientific calculator. It allows the user to enter expressions containing various mathematical functions and operators, including addition, subtraction, multiplication, division, sin, cos, tan, log, sqrt, and power. The program evaluates the expression and prints the result.
Here's a more detailed breakdown of the code:
•	The %{ ... %} block contains headers to include standard C libraries, as well as global variables and functions that will be used throughout the program.
•	The %union block defines the p variable to be of type double, which will be used to hold the value of numerical tokens.
•	The %token block defines various tokens that will be used in the program. Tokens represent the different types of values that can be recognized by the lexer. Tokens can be literals (like ADD), or they can be variables (like num) that are defined using %type.
•	The %left block defines the precedence of the various operators in the program. Precedence determines the order in which the operations are performed.
•	The %type block defines the type of the value returned by various parts of the grammar. In this case, exp and constant both return a double value.
•	The ss rule defines the main part of the program. It takes an exp and prints the result if there were no errors.
•	The exp rule defines how to parse expressions in the calculator. It takes two expressions and an operator, performs the operation, and returns the result. It can also handle special functions like sin, cos, tan, log, sqrt, and pow. The num token is used to recognize numerical values.
•	The constant rule defines the constant value of pi to be 3.14159.
•	The yyerror function is called if there is an error in the input. It prints the error message and sets the flag variable to 1.
•	The main function initializes the program and calls yyparse to parse user input. It loops indefinitely until the user enters "quit".

